So to reiterate a decimal value of zero equates to a hexadecimal value of zero decimal value of one
equates to a hexadecimal value of 1 2 is 2 3 is 3 and so forth and so on until you get to 9.
So 9 in decimal equates to 9 in hexadecimal a decimal value of 10 equates to a hexadecimal value of
a decimal 11 is hexadecimal B 12 13 14 is e 15.
F that's what you need to remember.
So doing a more complex example once again.
What about 2 to 4 in decimal.
That equates to 1 1 1 0 in binary.
If you're not sure use a Windows calculator to help you or refer back to my binary and decimal conversions
to work out these values.
So two to four in decimal equates to that in binary.
If we split it in half the secrets to zero in decimal or zero in hexadecimal and this equates to a zero
a to a four and an 8 in binary.
So eight plus four was 12 plus two's 14 plus 0 is 14 14 and hexadecimal equates to e in hexadecimal.
So this is the zero in hexadecimal.
So two to four in decimal equates to zero in hexadecimal Stewy another example.
What about 240 so 240.
Looks like this.
In binary these are Windows calculator.
So to 4 0 in decimal equates to a binary value of the following.
So break it into this equates to zero in decimal and zero in hexadecimal.
This equates to 15 in decimal or if in hexadecimal.
Convert that to hexadecimal and you get the value of f is 0.
So two to four equals zero in hexadecimal 240 equals zero in hexadecimal.
Getting back to our previous example of 255 255 equals eight binary ones split in two.
That gives you 15 in decimal or F F in hexadecimal so 255 255 255 255 gives you 8 hexadecimal F's.
So what about a IP address such as 10.
Doc wondered wondered one what is that in hexadecimal.
So 10 in binary and let's fill in the leading zeros would look like this.
One would look like this.
And you would repeat that for the third and fourth octet so converting to hexadecimal.
Break these into 4 binary bits 0 is 0 in hexadecimal.
That is 10.
So it's an A.
This is a 0 and this is a 1.
So that's a fairly simple example of how to convert a value like this into the hexadecimal equivalent
valleys Let's take another example.
What about 3:58 don't one to two or three.
So to do for Looks like this in binary one looks like this too looks like this entry looks like this.
So that equates to eight plus four plus two which is 14 14 in hexadecimal is e 0 in hexadecimal is a
zero.
This is fairly easy once again that's a 0 and a 1 in hexadecimal.
This is 0 2 in hexadecimal and this breaking it up into four binary bets is 0 3 in hexadecimal.
The trick to remember is that decimal values are 0 2 9 equivalent to hexadecimal values zero to nine
decimal values 10 to 15 or equivalent to hexadecimal values 8 to f.
The largest single hexadecimal value is an F and that's four binary ones.
So you need to convert any IP address number such as 240 into two portions of 4 binary bits and then
work out the hexadecimal for each for binary bit value.
So this is F and this is a zero and you can see that using a calculator is 240 in decimal equals zero
in hexadecimal.
As we worked out.